Good afternoon everybody.
Welcome to Building Xsan
Application Session 622.
My name is Jason Thorpe and I manage
the Xsan engineering team at Apple.
First of all,
how many of you know what Xsan is?
Raise your hand.
Yay, that's just about everybody.
So for the few of you who
didn't raise your hand,
Xsan is the SAN file system for Mac OS X.
SAN stands for Storage Area Network and
that's going to be kind of a key
thing in my presentation here today.
Remember that, Storage Area Network.
So what I'm hoping you're
going to come away from this
presentation with today is one,
how Xsan works, and two,
the volume characteristics
that your applications are
going to need to be aware of.
Three, some tips on configuring your Xsan
volumes and also on how to make your
applications compatible with Xsan.
And also how to improve your
application's performance with Xsan.
To facilitate those,
we're going to teach you about
some Xsan Developer APIs and we're
also going to demonstrate setting
up a simple Xsan sandbox for doing
application development with Xsan.
And in the course of that,
we're going to actually show you how
the Xsan Admin Application works.
So let's just jump right
in and how Xsan works.
So first of all,
how many people attended last
year's Xsan in-depth session?
Did anyone go to that?
So some of this is a review.
We're going to go over just
basically some file system types
that you might be familiar with,
traditional file system types,
the first one being
direct attached storage.
This has been around for decades.
It's your traditional hard drive
connected to your computer.
It's a single disk that contains
both a catalog and your user data.
And the file system code runs on the
single computer that accesses that data.
And examples of these kinds of
file systems are HFS+ and UFS,
the two really common ones in Mac OS.
Next we have the network attached
storage type file systems.
These solve the lack of shared
access that direct attached
storage file systems have.
It allows multiple computers to
share files in the file system.
The way these work is they accept
high level calls from applications,
transmit them over the
wire to the file server,
then the file server in turn
translates those calls into basically
the direct access storage system
that's connected to that file server.
And examples of this type of
file system are AFP and NFS.
So in contrast, a Xsan file system works
a little differently.
First of all,
the disks are attached to all the
computers on the Xsan via some fabric.
And the most common fabric for Xsans
out there today is fiber channel.
The catalog and the user data
are actually stored separately.
They are stored separately so that one
process running on a dedicated machine
can actually act as an arbitrator and
serialize access to that information.
It basically acts as a server
that translates these high level
metadata calls to block offsets
on the actual disks themselves.
The kernel side file system client
on each client computer is then able
to access the data directly on the
disks using the Fibre Channel Fabric.
So, just to illustrate how Xsan works,
we have kind of a diagram
here of a very simple SAN.
We have a metadata controller,
the XServe G5 there, along with a G5 desk
side as a client system.
And a couple of XServe RAIDs
connected with Fibre Channel and
the client and the controller are
connected via a private IP network.
And then we have,
since we have two XServe RAIDs,
each XServe RAID has
one controller per side.
So we have four RAID LUNs, logical units.
LUN1 we've configured as a RAID 1 and the
other three we've configured as RAID 5.
And if you're curious why that is,
we'll get to that just in a minute.
Okay, so we select one LUN to
store the metadata and we've
highlighted there LUN number one.
And then the controller is configured
to know that all those LUNs
together are grouped into a volume.
So, it's important to note that the
client side has no knowledge of
the layout of the data on the disk.
It doesn't know how directories work,
it doesn't know about things like
inodes or anything like that.
It knows that there's some disks out
there and there's some data out on
them and that's all that it knows.
So an application then is able to
access that data by communicating
with the metadata controller.
And to illustrate that,
we have a hypothetical application
that's writing some data.
It makes a write call to the Xsan volume.
In turn,
the file system code on the client
sends a message to the controller,
basically asking where is
the data for this file.
The controller then reads the
catalog data from the metadata
LUN that we've designated,
LUN1 there.
And then it responds to the client
telling it where the file lives
and we call these file extents.
The client then writes the
data directly to the disk.
Okay, so in Xsan you group disks together
into what we call storage pools.
And you do this primarily
for better performance.
This is really similar
to how RAID 0 works,
software RAID 0.
So if you've used the Apple RAID facility
that comes in Mac OS X to put a couple of
RAIDs together into a larger RAID volume,
this works very similarly.
Except that instead of being handled
by a driver on the client computer
itself as a block level driver,
this is actually handled
by the controller.
So to illustrate that,
we're going to just basically
make the same call again.
and the controller responds
that that file is actually split
in half on two different LUNs.
And then the client can write to
both of those LUNs in parallel.
So this means that it actually has
two paths into the data at once.
Since your Apple Fiber
Channel Controller has two ports,
this allows you to actually have
two full 2 gigabit per second
paths to that data at once,
doubling your bandwidth.
So where the data lives is completely
transparent not only to the client
but also to the application.
And this abstraction allows us to
simply reconfigure the controller
to add more storage to the volume.
So the controller is
very important in Xsan.
It happens.
Hardware fails, power goes out,
someone trips over the Ethernet cable.
If your controller fails,
you can set a backup controller
to actually take over if
the primary should go down.
The way this works is it actually
uses the journal data to actually
reconstruct the state of the file system
from where the previous system failed.
The clients then reestablish
any locks they might have.
This whole process is very quick.
The new controller can be hosting the
volume in just a matter of seconds.
It's important to note that during
this time that the failover occurs,
if the clients actually
know where their data lives,
they can continue to stream
directly to the disk.
They don't even know
the controller is gone.
This is a huge difference from a
traditional file server where the
controller is directly involved
with all IO to the disk themselves.
Okay, so now that you have a basic
understanding of how Xsan works,
let's talk about how you
actually configure it.
First of all, metadata storage.
The metadata is comprised of
both the catalog information,
basically your directory entries and
other information about the files,
as well as the file system journal
that's used to provide crash recovery and
failover capability for the file system.
This metadata should be
isolated from all other data.
This is good for both performance
reasons and it can actually avoid
some problems that can occur if
the LUN where your metadata is
stored otherwise gets too full.
Metadata is extremely important.
If you lose your metadata,
you are going to lose your file system.
For this reason,
the LUN should be redundant, so RAID 1,
etc.
You should have a hot spare so that
you can immediately rebuild in case
one of those drives should fail.
You also need to have good random
I/O performance on that LUN.
That's critical for the performance
of the entire file system because
metadata operations are small and
they're scattered all over the disk.
So you don't want to have prefetching
turned on or anything like that.
It's really key that good random
I/O performance is on that LUN.
And you don't need a lot
of storage for metadata,
about 10 GB per 10 million files or so.
So for this reason we really like to see
people use RAID 1 for their metadata LUN.
Going back to the previous slide where
we actually did that in the diagram.
So for data storage, again,
you want to combine your
LUNs into storage pools.
This increases the
performance through striping,
and again, this leverages the
multi-pathing capability that's
built into Fibre Channel.
But you only want to combine LUNs
with the same characteristics.
If you have some LUNs that are
slow and some LUNs that are fast,
you don't want to combine them
together because you're going to
bring down the effective speed of
that pool to the lower speed LUNs.
And you also don't want to combine
LUNs of different sizes because in
order for striping to occur optimally,
what happens is that the larger
LUNs will be truncated logically
to the size of the smallest one.
So that's something you
need to watch out for.
Second of all, you really want to create
different storage pools for
different kinds of workloads.
This is key for performance of
certain types of applications
where you may have a combination
of random I/O and streaming I/O.
and it allows you to basically
choose the optimal RAID configuration
for each type of data,
not only at the file system level,
but it allows you to configure
the XServe RAIDs as well for
the type of workload that you're
going to be subjecting them to.
This also has the advantage that
I/O that's occurring on one pool
does not interfere with another.
For example,
if you have a digital asset management
application and you're streaming some
data off of your archival pool to get
into your video production workflow,
you don't want the indexing operations
or lookup operations that are happening
by some other user interfering with
streaming that data off the drives.
You can do that with storage pools.
So here's just a quick example
to illustrate storage pools here.
Going back to our diagram,
So again we have our one
metadata storage pool.
We just got a single RAID 1 one there.
Then we have in this hypothetical
example an audio storage pool.
We don't need a lot of space for this.
It doesn't need to stream
a lot of data off quickly.
And so we're just going to
use a single RAID 5 for that.
But in this instance we're using say
uncompressed high definition video
and we really need the bandwidth.
So for video we're going to go with four
RAID 5s so that we have a total of four
2 gigabit per second paths to that data.
But this all appears as a
single icon on your desktop,
one volume.
So storage pools, they're powerful.
How do we use them?
This is where affinities come into play.
So a controller normally assigns files to
a storage pool in a round robin fashion.
As you create a file,
it starts here at storage pool one,
you create a next file,
it goes on the storage pool two, etc.
But affinities give you the ability to
steer data to specific storage pools.
These storage pools can also be marked
as an exclusive storage pool so that
data is only assigned to them if
it's specifically steered towards it.
The Xsan Admin application allows
mapping of folders to specific storage
pools and Mike Margolis is going
to demo that for you later today.
There's a command line tool that allows
you to query and set storage pools for
files and folders and also an application
API that we'll get into shortly.
Okay, so now you've learned a bit
about storage pools now,
so let's talk about Xsan
volume characteristics.
These are of particular importance
to application developers who
are writing applications that
actually do file system-y stuff,
actually talk to files on a disk.
First of all,
performance characteristics of Xsan.
It's a shared volume,
but the metadata operations
are actually much faster than
a traditional file server.
For one, the IP network is not involved
in the actual data transfer.
We actually recommend that you
use a private Ethernet network
for connecting your metadata
controllers to your clients.
For this reason,
that network is lightly loaded
and should be highly responsive.
In addition,
the metadata controller itself,
unlike a traditional file server,
is not actually involved
in the data transfer.
So it can respond to those
metadata operations quickly.
But it's also important to remember
that this is not a local volume.
Talking to a local disk is always faster
than taking a round trip on the network.
So things like lookup, create,
anything that changes
the attribute of a file,
these all require the client
to go out onto the network and
talk to the metadata controller,
which is slower than
talking on the local volume.
But file I/O is going
to happen at RAID speed.
So, some things you need to be
aware of when you're writing
an Xsan compatible application.
First of all, it's a shared volume.
So you need to be aware that file
locking comes into play here,
just like any other shared volume.
We support all the
standard file locking APIs,
both the shared and exclusive
lock flags to open as well as
POSIX byte range file locking.
You should also expect very
large volumes with Xsan.
Multi-terabyte volumes are
extremely common as are
very large numbers of files.
So if you're writing some sort of
backup application or any other
data management application,
you need to make sure to use the
correct types for file sizes,
for block numbers, for inode numbers,
etc.
Now, this is not an HFS+ volume.
It's actually a lot more
like UFS in a lot of ways.
It's case sensitive.
It's a single fork file system
so Carbon uses Apple Double.
Bear that in mind if, again,
you're writing backup software,
you need to pay attention to these
little dot underbar files that
are scattered all over the place.
And you need to be aware of
ownership and file permissions.
Unlike AFP and SMB where you actually log
in to create a session to the SharePoint,
there is no user ID mapping in Xsan.
We rely completely on standard
POSIX UID and GID and POSIX permissions.
So getting the most out
of Xsan performance wise,
first of all, again,
remember the metadata operations
require a network round trip.
There's latency involved there.
So try to avoid them at all costs.
Don't use lots of small
files in your application.
Don't use the file
system like a database.
Actually create a database file if
you need that type of functionality.
And then use the Xsan
APIs to preload file extents.
When streaming data,
this actually reduces the number
of round trips that you'll
have to make to the controller
while you're streaming data off.
And it also allows you to
continue to stream data more
reliably if the controller
should fail over to the backup.
You should also keep file
fragmentation to a minimum.
File fragmentation means more work
for the metadata controller and more
work for the client having to talk
to more drives and it does not always
generate the optimal I/O pattern.
So you can do this by preallocating
storage when you write files.
We actually support
two preallocation APIs,
both the fpreallocate fcontrol
that's available in POSIX and
also the fsallocate fork call
that's available in Carbon.
Finally, make sure you issue large
I/O requests when possible.
The magic number we talk
about is about a megabyte.
This allows two things.
One, the file system,
if you're not using pre-allocation,
can avoid fragmentation this way
because it sees that you're making
these large sequential writes.
Also,
it allows the file system to exploit
the parallelism that's built right
into the Fibre Channel Fabric.
Alright so,
let's talk a little bit about the
developer APIs that make some of these
So the developer APIs, again,
they provide access to
Xsan-specific features.
These include extent preloading,
bandwidth reservation, and affinities.
Now, the underlying API uses sysctl.
It's not the prettiest API in the world,
but if you're not,
there's plenty of example code
that's available on the Xsan CD.
And the Xsan CD is actually available
to all registered ADC developers.
You can actually download
that developer preview.
Now the API is still in flux.
We said that last year
and it's still true.
But rest assured that every effort
is going to be made to maintain
binary compatibility so that your
applications that actually take
advantage of Xsan's features,
while they may need source
code changes going forward,
the old applications will
continue to run fine.
And finally,
we're actually working toward better
integration with the other Mac OS APIs so
that you don't have to think about
this stuff so much in your application.
We're hoping to make this a little
more automatic in the future.
First of all, we're going to talk about
file pre-allocation.
This is not something
that's Xsan specific at all,
actually.
HFS also supports file pre-allocation.
We actually strongly
encourage you to just do it,
no matter what kind of file
system you're talking to.
You can treat it as an advisory call,
you can ignore any errors,
but basically what it allows
the file system to do is
make optimal block allocation
decisions for your application.
So here's just an example of using
F control to actually do this.
It's pretty straightforward,
very similar to actually using
the POSIX byte range locking.
You fill out an FStoreT structure.
You want to tell it basically what
the position mode you want to use.
You always want to use the physical
end of file position mode in this call.
Tell it where to start.
So offset zero from end of file
is basically where we're starting.
So we're starting at the end of the file.
And then you want to tell it
how much you want to allocate.
In this case the file size
because we're saving a file here.
And it can also actually return
to you the number of bytes
that have been allocated.
You can ignore this.
You can pay attention to it.
It doesn't really matter.
Again,
I encourage you to treat this as an
advisory call in your application
and issue it all the time.
If an error comes back from a file
system that doesn't support it,
who cares.
Thank you.
And here's just the same
thing again in Carbon.
Again, very straightforward.
So the rest of the APIs that we're going
to talk about actually require that you
issue them only on an Xsan file system.
So the way that you tell if a volume
is actually an Xsan volume is you use
the statfs system call and you pass
it a path and you get back a statfs
structure and in that statfs structure
there is a file system type name.
And in the header file that we provide
in the Xsan software development
kit there is a string constant that
defines what that file system type
name is and you just compare it
and if it returns zero then you
know that it is an Xsan file system.
So this is just a really simple example
of how you make a call to the Xsan API.
This particular example,
we actually are just querying the
version information of the file system.
And as you can see,
it's pretty straightforward.
That fs_sysctl function is
actually included in the
example code that's on the CD.
And you can just cut and paste that
directly in your application so you
don't have to worry about rewriting
exactly all the stuff that it does.
It does a few sort of bookkeeping
things to make sure that,
or to actually find out the index,
the file system index number of
the file system in the kernel.
And that function takes care of it.
You can just use that.
So preloading file extents.
You want to use the F_LOAD_EXT API call.
I strongly encourage anyone
who is writing a streaming
application to use this call.
It's going to make your
application work much better,
especially if you have
a controller failover.
Very straightforward.
You basically,
here in this particular example,
we've determined the size
of the file using stat.
We just provide that to the little data
structure that we pass up to this call.
We issue it and it does all the
communication with the metadata
controller and preloads all the extent
information right into the kernel on the
client side so that it can just begin to
stream data as soon as you start to read.
Bandwidth Reservation.
We actually demoed this
a little bit last year.
I don't actually have any sample
code that will fit on one slide
for bandwidth reservation,
unfortunately.
There's lots of things you have to do.
But fear not,
this is documented in the documentation
that's included on the Xsan CD.
But essentially what you do is
you use the FsetRTIO API call to
enable real time I/O on a file.
Now keep in mind this does require
some additional configuration
on your metadata controller.
This configuration,
these configuration knobs are not
available in the Xsan Admin GUI.
You actually do have to edit a
config file manually to do this
but it's very straight forward.
I've got a little example snippet there
of what you might put in the config file.
Essentially for each storage pool what
you need to do is specify the throughput
that's available on that storage pool.
That's something the Xsan Admin
Application can't really determine.
There are tools out there that do disk
performance testing and you want to
use those types of tools to determine
the throughput available on your pool.
And then the next thing you need
to do is you need to specify the
amount of bandwidth that is reserved
for non-real-time applications.
So by default this defaults to 1
megabyte per second where you don't want,
you essentially don't want an
application to be able to reserve
all of the bandwidth available
because then you might deadlock other
applications out from being able
to read and write that volume at all.
This example we've just reserved
10 megabytes per second for
all non-real-time clients.
So, affinities.
There are essentially three
basic API calls used to
manipulate affinities in Xsan.
First is the fgetaffinity API call.
This, as the name might suggest,
gets the affinity that
is assigned to a file.
Then there's the FSGInfo API call.
And what this does is it returns
information about the storage pools
that are available on the volume.
Each volume actually has an
8-byte key assigned to it.
And then that key is used with the
FsetAffinity API call to actually
assign the affinity for the file.
And that affinity then takes
effect for all new data,
all new extents allocated for that file.
It will not move extents that
are already assigned to a file.
There are actually command line tools
available in Xsan to do that for you.
Or once you've assigned a file,
you can actually copy it and
it will go to the new place.
So how you might use these
three API calls together.
Say your application has a save file
dialog and you want to allow your user
to specify the affinity for that file.
You'd use the getAffinity
call to provide a popup,
sorry to provide a default for a popup.
That popup would then contain
a list of all the storage pools
available and you can get that
list using the SGINFO API call.
The user can then select the popup
they want or leave the default.
And then when you write out that file,
you'd use setAffinity to
actually set the affinity.
So, just to illustrate this,
we're going to walk through an example
of saving a file to an Xsan volume.
Pretty simple operation.
These steps are really
similar to what the Carbon and
Cocoa safe-save operations do.
First of all,
you would use the open system
call to create a temporary file.
Then you could optionally use the
setAffinity API call to assign
it to a specific storage pool.
Next,
because you're all good Xsan citizens,
you're going to pre-allocate
the storage for that file.
Xsan is the Xsan
application for Mac OS X.
Learn the basics of how Xsan works
and how its differences relative
to HFS+ might be important to your
products for maximized performance.
Now, if you allocate all this space
and you don't use it all,
that's OK, because when you close
the file when you're done,
all that unused preallocated space
will be freed back to the file
system so you don't have to worry
about wasting file system space.
Finally, in order to provide atomicity
from the user's perspective,
you use rename to rename the temporary
file to the user's specified file name.
This provides consistency for the user
if any of these operations should fail
in middle and you abort the operation.
So, you're all charged up to develop your
Xsan compatible applications I hope,
but you're probably wondering, "Well,
how do I do this without spending a
whole lot of money on gear?" Well,
you don't actually have to do that
if you just want to make sure your
application is compatible with Xsan.
Really all you need is a
desktop or a powerbook,
a FireWire drive,
and a network connection with
a static IP address and you can
have a fully functional sandbox.
With that,
I'm going to turn the podium over to
Mike Margolis and he's going to show you
All right, I have cheerleaders I guess.
So, demo machine.
So you're going to need a
FireWire drive right here.
The first step is going to be
to plug it into your machine.
Now this is an HFS+ volume.
I use it to store some
random files for work.
What we're going to need to do
is remove the HFS+ partition
so that Xsan can use it.
The second step,
because the first step was plugging in,
is to erase that.
So we launch Disk Utility.
We click on the volume.
Click on partition and you
format it as free space.
And then go ahead and partition it.
And we'll get a little error back.
Don't mind that, that's normal.
We now run the admin tool now that we
have a FireWire drive that's ready.
So let's log in as our
local administrator here.
And this will go ahead and connect.
So as you can see the file system
is running but we don't have
any mounted clients or capacity.
We don't have a Xsan volume yet.
If you were here last year
some of this might be review.
You can use the admin to see the
logs for any machine on the system
and you can even filter the logs.
You can use graphs for
the IP network traffic,
fiber network traffic, or CPU usage.
There's no fiber traffic.
There's no fiber.
So the CPU usage of any
machine on the network as well.
Right now there's just one.
And here's where the fun comes in.
We're going to set up
a SAN on this machine.
So the first step is to select
the machine and it says you must
enter an Xsan serial number.
Well luckily we have an Xsan
serial number right here.
So let's go ahead and paste that in
and it will validate automatically
so it won't let you enter weird
invalid serial numbers and you
can see this expires Monday,
June 13th.
We need this to be a controller as
well so that it can serve up volumes.
The failover priority isn't
too important right now.
Normally it lets you specify the
order in which machines failover
when they go down but we only have
one so that's not the problem.
Not a problem here.
So we also want to access the
Xsan via built in Ethernet.
If you have a multiple NIC machine
you want to specify if you want the
private network or the public network.
Usually the private needs
to tell it which one it is.
This is actually important for
your PowerBook development.
You need a static IP address because
the file system configuration files
use this IP address so if you come
up again with a different IP you
won't be able to mount your volume.
You'll kind of have to
scrub and start over.
So let's go ahead and click OK.
And let's name this WWDC-San.
Click over on LUNs.
Then step two which we
conveniently numbered for you.
Go ahead and you can see
it's a 27 gigabyte LUN.
So it's definitely a FireWire device.
Click on storage.
Step three.
This is the fun part.
Create the volume.
So you click the new volume button here.
And let's name this MicSan.
Mic volume actually.
There are certain configuration
parameters here like the block allocation
size and the allocation structure.
We don't need to tweak with them
right now but if you need to know more
about them you can click on the help
button in any sheet and it will bring
up inline help in the application.
And that's it.
The next step is to click the new
storage pool button next to the
list and we create a storage pool.
Now normally we recommend that
you separate your journaling and
metadata into its own storage pool.
In our case we only have one LUN so
we're going to go with any data.
Again there's more configuration
values here that you can play
with and you can click on help
to get information about them.
And finally we click on available
LUNs and you drag and drop
create a Xsan right there.
And you click save and it pops
up a warning saying oh no you're
only using one storage pool.
Are you sure this might hurt
performance because if you mix your
user data and your metadata you can
interrupt your streaming performance.
And you might even run out.
So we don't really mind.
It's not a real SAN anyways.
Click save.
So this is going to go
ahead and create our volume.
While it's creating it I'm
going to show you notifications.
Xsan has the ability to send you
email notifications if certain things
happen like a controller fails over,
someone takes scissors
to the fiber channel.
It'll email you about
that if you really want.
[Transcript missing]
Great, thanks Mike.
Go back to slides, thanks.
Hopefully you're all excited
about developing your
applications to be Xsan aware.
Before we wrap up,
I'm going to go over examples
of some applications that really
ought to be made Xsan aware.
You can maybe take this as a little
challenge to application developers
out there to go out and do this.
If you do,
you'll have a leg up in your competition
when you work better with Xsan.
Being involved in the
management of this product,
I hear a lot of complaints sometimes.
One of the questions we
feel a lot is backups.
How do we do backups on Xsan?
I don't know if any of you were
at Rusty Tucker's ACL session
a couple of sessions ago.
They talked about Tivoli
Storage Manager and how it
actually has Xsan support.
Backup software.
There are a couple of Xsan
specific things in backup software
that you really want to support.
One of them is to be able to
backup and restore the affinity
information for individual files.
If there is a catastrophic
failure on your SAN,
when you restore it you want
it to have the same performance
characteristics that it had before.
You can do that by extending your
backup catalog information to be able
to store the affinity for a file.
When a volume is restored,
it is restored with the same
types of storage pool names and
when those files are restored,
they are restored to the
correct storage pools.
Secondly, we are often asked, "Well,
how do you back up quota information?"
Quota information is really kind
of a property of the volume and
you can actually use Xsan APIs to
query the quota information and
then you can store that in your volume
attributes in your backup catalog.
Next, digital asset management.
I think I mentioned this
earlier in the slides.
You can use storage pools in
a digital asset management
application to really improve the
performance of your application.
You can separate your index,
your previews,
and your full res data from one another.
You perform data isolation this way.
This allows you to continue to
stream full res data off while you
do indexing operations and that
I/O won't conflict with one another.
Next, distributed applications.
How many of you are familiar with Xgrid?
Raise your hands.
You've heard of it?
Used it?
Okay, so in distributed applications,
traditionally,
data is copied from the scheduling
entity out to the processing entities.
And that's usually done over a network.
So we'd like to encourage you to use,
instead of the pass-by-value
semantics of actually sending
that data over the network,
pass it by reference.
Provide it a path name and connect all
of your computing resources to the Xsan.
This allows all of those applications
to actually read that data at full speed
directly from disk instead of having to
shuttle it over the network manually.
Next, streaming applications.
This would include any type
of video production software.
This would include
streaming media servers.
Anything where you open a file
and you read it to the end.
One, you should use extent preloading
like we talked about before.
This is going to improve your
performance and your reliability.
Also,
consider using the bandwidth reservation
APIs in order to make sure that you don't
have interruptions of service as you are
streaming that data out to the network
or any other consumer of that data.
Next, Media Ingest Applications.
I guess this would be kind
of the flip side of the video
post production workflow,
pulling the data in.
Use pre-allocation when you're
writing that data to the Xsan.
It's going to greatly improve the
performance of your application
as you then read it back later.
And then finally you can also
consider using bandwidth reservation
in this scenario as well in order to
have guaranteed service so that as
you're streaming it off of tape you
don't suddenly drop a frame and have
to back up and start over again.
So, just to wrap up here,
I think we've shown you that
Xsan actually allows for
highly flexible use of storage.
Much more flexible than just your
traditional direct attached storage,
much more flexible than a file server,
and it also allows for
shared access at high speeds.
Next, the applications really should be
aware of Xsan's volume characteristics.
There are some differences
from traditional HFS that
you need to be aware of.
Also, the flipside of that is that
applications can then be tuned for
better performance on Xsan as well.
Finally,
it's really easy to set up a sandbox
for developing an application
to be compatible with Xsan.
So for more information about Xsan,
obviously the first place you should go
is the Xsan webpages on www.apple.com.
It's chock full of information
including examples of how it can be
used in various types of environments,
be it high performance computing,
video workflow,
and enterprise IT type deployments.
Also, I strongly encourage you to join
the Xsan users mailing list.
For those of you who are
using and deploying Xsan,
it's a great resource for seeing
how other people use Xsan and
just a good user community
for sharing tips and tricks.
For application developers,
this is also a good resource for
finding out how your potential
customers are using Xsan.
I strongly encourage everyone to
sign up on that mailing list if you
have any interest in Xsan at all.
So, documentation and sample code.
We don't have anything
up on the WWDC website,
but you can actually get this
on the Xsan CD that's available
from Apple Developer Connection.
Again, any registered ADC member can
actually download a developer
preview of Xsan and start using it.
And there's a software development
kit included there with PDF files,
got documentation in it,
along with sample code and
the API header file that you
need in order to get started.